This question is to help us understand
our age group. Yen is
answering you all today, but Yen has been
practicing, is practicing, and will continue to practice,
otherwise, later on, someone will
ask Yen, "What's wrong?" and she'll never answer. This
is forgetfulness, a disease
of the elderly, like us, you know!
Thu Thu,
I'm a very forgetful person, messy,
disorganized, and often forget things, especially
money. Although I try to be tidy, I do
n't get the desired results. I
don't know what I did before, but
now I keep having this problem.
What should I do now? Well,
losing money also
has karmic consequences; it's not just
because of being messy that I lose money. Yen
will tell you all about the time she lost
money. That time, Yen was holding money from the Three Jewels.
That morning, she was working as a middleman. At that time, Yen made a vow that she would
wholeheartedly practice, only seeking to
find the true Dharma so that she could
practice and truly practice the true Dharma. Yen made
this vow.  At first, the vow was made out
of overwhelming desire, not because I
fully understood it, because I hadn't yet
felt the need to make such a vow.
Losing
all possessions, my spouse and I separated, my
children were separated, and I accepted everything
so that I could encounter the True Dharma and
practice it correctly.
That vow
led to me wanting to
invest in my children's business and work, and I
lost everything. That day, I usually
kept the money from the Three
Jewels at home before going to work. I
think I was carrying 67 million or 77
million, I don't remember
exactly, but
that day I insisted on
putting it in my bag to take to work
because no one at home would take it. But
suddenly, I felt afraid of losing it.
Because I had lost everything, now I only
had the money from the Three Jewels, and I had to hold onto it tightly,
afraid of losing it.
Then I went to work, and I
don't know when it disappeared. There were friends there that day,
fellow practitioners
in the Dharma group who knew me.  Crying doesn't cost
money, but when you touch it, there's no money. Yen
cried because losing money from her heart and her own money was
n't a big deal, but losing money from the
Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha) was. At that time, Yen
vowed that she would earn 10 million [Vietnamese Dong]. Because
now she was paying back the Three Jewels, she
didn't know how much it was anymore, she
just vaguely remembered it like that. She didn't
know if it was 67 million or 77 million, but she would
work to pay back 10 million to the Three Jewels for
good. So, losing money is also
due to karma and destiny.
The other thing Yen lost was due to her vow, so this loss of money is also due to
karma. Yen's loss of money
fell into the category of what she had vowed. Let's
see how she would react then. Would she progress
in her
spiritual practice, or would she lose her faith,
abandon her path, and not be
as virtuous as she was before?
First of all, it's karma.
Losing money is a matter of karma,
so you must know how to give alms and
repent for what you did in your previous life.  You can
steal from someone or persuade someone to
spend money wastefully. People have
money, but even if they spend it
wastefully, that money will be used for
evil deeds. Therefore, in this life,
you will lose your wealth because you yourself
squandered it. That's why you must practice charity. As for being forgetful,
disorganized, messy, and forgetful, and the senility
we experience in old age,
we must now cultivate ourselves.
We will live like we did when we
were young. That is, whatever task we do,
we must think about it. After thinking,
that will maintain our mental faculties. It
maintains our mental faculties
because why we are forgetful is
because we are cooking rice and talking to the
neighbors. That is, too
many things enter our minds at once, so our consciousness
registers three or four things at once,
causing us to become confused. Sometimes
we are eating and suddenly remember
where we ate the rice, then suddenly
realize the rice is gone without
knowing it.  No matter how you chew, you ca
n't remember which piece you chewed, how you
chewed it, or how you swallowed it. Has anyone else experienced
this? And walking down a
road, thinking about something, and then not even
knowing what's on that
road anymore? That's
why we do one thing,
but our minds are preoccupied with so many things, leading to
forgetfulness and
confusion. In Buddhism, the
practice of focusing on one task while simultaneously thinking about it is very difficult. It might
take
decades to cultivate this,
not just a day or two. It's very
difficult because, truly, to
only think about the task at hand is already
close to achieving sainthood.
So now, we
practice writing down what we're doing, and
we have a process. I'll just give you an example: Imagine
you're going from your house
to the market. First, you think about going to the back
gate, then the
main road, then the market gate, and then entering the market. Then
you...  "Go, guys, to the gate,
I've already gone to the gate. That's the way of
practicing. Then, when I get to the main road, I've already
gone to the main road." That means everything
we write down,
we have to follow it with our minds.
This practice helps
us reduce forgetfulness.
Because we are mindful, meaning we are
mindful, so we don't get distracted. Usually,
we're doing one thing, then thinking about
another, then thinking about this, doing
this, but thinking about something
else. For example, boys and girls,
I'm doing this, but I'm
thinking about that guy who's paying attention to me.
We've been like this since we were young,
right? We do this, but we're
not focused on the work, but we keep
imagining that person
admiring us, and then we're being pretentious, maybe even
with a flower,
right? That's what
we've trained ourselves to do.
That's the kind of forgetfulness we've been experiencing. It's like
forgetting what we're doing right now, like
lightly placing a flower in the vase.  I
sat down so that guy could admire
me. Then I immediately forgot about it,
right? Maybe I'll be surprised again when
he leaves, and then I'll look back and
realize that the flower on the table was
rotten, but I still put it there.
Because my mind is completely focused on him,
and the work is focused on the flower.
So my mind is in one place and my hands and feet are in
another. At the very least, my hands and feet
will be working while my mind knows nothing – that's forgetfulness, you know.
Therefore, we practice
little by little. That's what
helps us develop
awareness, preventing us from forgetting and getting
confused before it gets too serious. If it gets too serious,
we'll get confused and we'll die, it's
not that easy. So, I'm
saying this to myself,
not just to my fellow practitioners: because we have
too much
work, too many tasks, so when we do one thing, we
think about another; before we finish one, we
think about another. Therefore,
because we don't have a
program, for example, for which task we...  Once
we've thought it through, the task is complete. When we do it and
see that it's done, for example, if
we have 10 tasks, we must mentally
define all 10 tasks and consider what they are. We need to
define them
thoroughly in our minds. We shouldn't think superficially, thinking a little bit about this, then a little bit about that, then a little bit about that. If we do that, we won't get anything done. We need to think deeply and deeply about it. This makes us very
intelligent. Sometimes, we can handle tasks
we've never done before, but when we approach them, we can do
them quickly, efficiently, and
accurately because we are mindful.
Therefore, we must practice
mindfulness to transform the karma of
confusion and forgetfulness. We must practice mindfulness
[music]
a lot.